To show the application of recursion that it's nothing better than a dot of Hanoi that often is a very
interesting puzzle.
And many of you may already know about it.
So there is a story that there's a place called Hanoi in Vietnam vet that are treat us and with about
200 disks and the monks there have to move all their deaths from one hour to hour by using certain rules
and it is said that by the time all the best sort of move from one end to the other they're very real.
And but the world has already ended many times now and it's probably become quite boring to even talk
about it.
But anyway.
So let's go over the rules of the puzzle.
OK.
Now here we have three dollars a b and c and we have some disks in it which are aged in the increasing
order of size from top to bottom.
And what we're supposed to do is to move all the disks from our A C using B as an intermediate such
that at no point of time a big this comes on top of a smaller one.
All right.
And one more rule is that we can only move one disk at a time.
So let's look at a few examples to me the idea here.
So let's say we just have one this.
So this is simple.
We can just move this one from the door to tarsi directly and we have the might of it we have named
the towers and numbered the disk so that we can track the movement and in our program when we write
when we will be printing out these messages.
All right.
So if there are two disks we number them as 1 and 2 1 being on top of two.
And this order of numbering is important for them.
So in general we'll start numbering the top most disk as one which would also happen to be the disk
with the smallest radius and then keep increasing the numbers as we go down the stack of disks.
And this case of two disks is also quite simple.
We first moved this one from A to B then what do we do.
Move disk to it to see right and finally move this one from Tarby to seat.
Right.
And this was also quite simple and something which everyone can figure out.
Then what about if we have three disks and you will notice that by adding more disks the complexity
of the problem increases.
And slowly with a few more days it will become much harder to write all the steps correctly.
Anyways so before moving on you may want to pause the video here and ride the steps yourself.
This one is also quite easy.
So what we can do is that we move this one to see diary then move this to from A to B.
Move this one from C to be moved disc three from A to C and now we would like to move both these discs
1 and 2 to downwards seat.
But because we can only move one day at a time and without keeping the bigger task on top of the smaller
one at any point of time we first need to move this one from DARBEE to Dhari and then move disk to from
B to C and then finally move this one from it to see.
All right.
And this was a little more intense than the first two cases.
And as the number of entries.
I didn't define the steps become increasingly complex.
And actually it is so complex that it will really be hard to write a program which moves these discs
iteratively.
And this is where recursion comes to help and makes this problem quite easy to program.
All you have to do is to focus a little and align your thoughts along the lines of percussion.
So let's say we write that move which makes for better meters.
The first one is the number of tasks that need to be moved and then the other three parameters can be
of God or the string types representing the others.
So the first one out of these three is Dobber from.
So we buzzed it here.
The second Stauber to that is that discs to be moved from our age to Z.
And the third parameter is the intermediate dullard.
Very Busbee as argument.
So then we call the move method with these Behrami does we mean that move and disk's from start to tarsi
using Tavor we as the intermediate and first you should convince yourself that this is possible.
That is we can move all these steps from it to C using another type.
And if you're convinced let's proceed.
So if we can do that it essentially means that we should be able to move these and minus one discs from
tower to tower be using C as an intermediate.
Right.
Think about it.
Because the end of the disk is the largest in radius.
It can remain untouched.
When we are moving those other and Manasquan discs like that right.
So we should be able to move these and minus one discs from it to be using C which means that we can
call the movement had fought and minus one discs from it to be using CPP isn't it.
Notice that the order of arguments for from tower to tower and using it has changed.
All right then we can move disc and from it to see which is what we can print.
And then we recursively move these in minus 1 disks from our b c using our aid.
So we can again call the move method recursively with this different set of better meters.
And this whole recursive approach just needs to be singing a little.
And to help with that let's revisit that tree this example again.
So here what you're saying is that we want to move three discs from our A C using double B which means
that we can move two discs from A to B using C and what we did earlier was that we moved this one from
A to Z then we moved this to from A to B and then moved this one from C to be.
So essentially the state of the system right now is exactly as if we moved to do this from our it to
be using a seat.
Right.
Which was done recursively.
And we don't really care about the details.
So we are done with this part.
Now we move discs 3 from a to z.
And finally we move these two discs from B to C using our aid.
And if we see that it does that is what we end up doing right.
So as you can see thinking recursively makes this problem much easier to solve.
But of course it needs a little practice and patience to be able to align your mind in that direction.
And of course we need to put the braking condition but let's implement this program and we will talk
about the braking condition that before moving on to the next lecture.
I suggest that you try implementing the program yourself first.
It's ok to try and fail but it's not ok not to have to write or write.